* Consider Writing *                    -*-muse-*-

There are many good reasons for you to write. But the most significant
reason is that you feel that you have something to say. To be a good
writer you must believe that there are people out there that would
benefit from your message.

Your approach to writing should be built around the needs of your
audience. How can you best communicate the key ideas that you have?
What is the best form to engage your readers? This all starts by
having a clear understanding of your audience. What are their hopes
and dreams? What do they fear most? How can your message connect with
those hopes and fears?

Without this clear understanding of your audience and your purpose in
writing you will flounder. It will be difficult to maintain
motivation. Your clarity will suffer because you will write for a
different audience every time you sit down.

Share wisdom from your experience. Some lessons must be learned
personally. However, many lessons can be gleaned from the experience
of others. This allows you to get the benefit without having to
experience the pain. This web site will help you recognize patterns
and aid you in deciding the best path forward.

Sharing experiences can be a great way to help
others. Shrinking-world.org is intended to be a great resource for
ideas to help you out. Here you will find best practices in the areas
of Technology, Productivity, and Leadership.

Feel free to use this material in any way that you wish. If you do
find something of use be sure to give credit to the source.

A good name is a valuable thing. It is worth spending a lifetime
investing in helping others. This is the essence of a good
reputation. It is the belief that you care about others and not just
yourself.

Consider activities that you might do that primarily benefit someone
else. Where are you currently investing your life in serving
others. The return is inevitable, but not immediate.

Shrinking World Organization was created to help others. We work to
ensure that the quality of the information posted is professional,
accurate, and high quality. This is a necessary part of building a
reputation. This site has information that you can trust to help you
get your job done in a more effective way.

If you find any errors please report them to us. If you have
suggestions for how this site could be improved then we would love to
hear from you.

The only way to get good at writing is to do it. This book is a venue
that allows (or requires) me to write regularly. If you want to
improve your skill as an author then figure out your primary venue.

Set up a place to share your writing with others. Build an expectation
in your readers by creating new material on a regular basis. This also
increases your motivation in times where it is naturally low.

Figure out the frequency that is write for you. If you are not writing
regularly today then pick a frequency that is much lower than you thnk
you can do. Once you make this choice then stick to it.

It does no good for you to commit to writing an article every week
only to deliver the first three articles before quitting. Select a
commitment that you believe that is sustaianable for the rest of your
life. You can always increase the level later once you have been
successful at the current level for a while
