* How The Guide Works *                                 -*-muse-*-

Shrinking World Guide is a valuable source of information about
Technology, Productivity, and Leadership. Helpful tips will guide you
through creating your own best practices. You will be able to find
improvements that will make your life simpler.

It is organized as a branching tree of topics that provide increasing
levels of detail. An overview of each topic is given with a short
description. You dive in deeper by following the link to more detailed
subtopics within the guide.

This site has a structure that helps to maintain regular habits of
authoring. These same policies also help to organize the discussions
into a form that is very useful to the readers.

Shrinking World Guide is here to serve you by providing a steady
stream of high-quality tips that will make your life more
enjoyable. As you have ideas that you would like to contribute then
contact me using the contact info on this web site.

New content is added about three times each week. Each article
consists of one or two paragraphs of text. Pointers to other topics
may also be included. This means that you may be able to see the
direction of the details that are yet to be written about before they
exist.

It is quite useless to have a web site proclaim that it is under
construction. Unlike books, which have long distribution lead times,
web sites are almost never complete. They are always within a state of
development.

The goal with a web site is to make it useful as quickly as
possible. Once it is functional it should remain in that state. People
get very frustrated with site that are not always working
properly. The goal of this web site is to always be useful and always
be growing in an incremental way.

Every topic can always be broken down into smaller topics. Experience
has shown me that if I truly want to understand a subject then it
should be described as four roughly equal subtopics. Testing this
breakdown requires exploring one more level below each of the legs.

The 4x4 pattern says that each topic can be broken into four, and that
each of them can be broken into four. The means that to describe a
subject requires decomposing into a structure of 21 related topics.

Having done the hard work it is very simple to write a paragraph
explaining each idea in the outline. The 4x4 pattern is the main
writing technique used in building Shrinking-world.org. I encourage
you to try out this process on your own favorite writing project.

As a software engineer I love tools. The difficulty comes when I spend
too much of my project time trying out new software methods and
tools. Shrinking World Guide is a writing venue where content is
king. When writing here I will resist the temptation to switch tools.

That is part of the reason that I chose to use media wiki as the
writing platform. I have also written a web publishing tool called
MyBookOnline.org. But writing my own publishing tool will mean that
most of the focus will be lost for the writing content
