Straight Talk: a letter from the President, Tom Haiston

The Harbor Walk Board of Directors had a great meeting on the Greenwalt Patio,
September 10, 2011. We discussed numerous items that positively impact our community.

We led off with the Financial Report from Dave Greenwalt which reflects little by little
we are gaining on our bank balance and remain in the black.

Next the Architectural Committee Chair, Khashaiar Charepoo discussed two items:

1) Get approval on all plans that change the appearance of the outside of your home
and yard. The appropriate forms must be turned in to the Committee Chair with
necessary attachments outlined in the instructions. The Committee needs reasonable
time, at least two weeks, to review and approve. 

2) News from Safe Built/The City of
Windsor- concrete slabs can be done without permit if less than 30” tall, if not building
a structure on it, and not crossing over any property lines. Additionally, if the City
does not approve any plans, the Committee can not authorize as we do not supersede
the City and Code. You are however able to apply for a variance; homeowner or
neighborhood wide. If done against the HOA or City, the homeowner is held liable.
Any improvements done to the outside of the home and yard must go through the
Committee. The Architectural Committee also reviews structures , landscape, and
fences that were previously installed. If these fall out of standards and become
esthetically unappealing for the neighborhood, you will be issued a Written Notice to
repair, replace, or take down.

George Hirata reported on the Landscape Committee. There have been some
reports of distressed shrubs in the neighborhood. If you know of any, please inform
George or Fay Bell for their review and possible replacement.

There is more and more interest in the empty lots, including Lot #10 (the basement
hole). There has been a Notice posted that Lot #10 will be sold by the Weld County
Public Trustee. The HOA has a lien on the property for past/delinquent dues and it
was pointed out to us by Water Valley that the lien the HOA holds is called a 'Super
Lien'. This means that in CO the HOA may consider selling the lien rights that may
create a little more income for the HOA. We invited a representative from ReMax
Alliance, Robin Acromite, to the Board Meeting who did a superb job of explaining our
options. We are awaiting interest from parties to purchase the lien. She has also had
contact with the investors who hold the papers on the empty lots. She is researching
possibilities of folks to develop these lots. This is exciting for the neighborhood;
hopefully these are more than simply rumors.

An update on the Neighborhood Website was given by Mark Seaman. A log-in has
now been created to the website- we will all be using the same log-in and access code,
etc. All homeowners can access bi-laws, forms, etc. There will be a separate area
for Board Members to log-in to in order to access minutes, etc. Information on the
website is soon to come!

Please be careful and watch out for Yellow Jackets. There is an increase in numbers
in the neighborhood. They are building their nests under the eaves, under the
shingles, and in any crevasse they can find.

Thanks to the Greenwalts for the refreshments and hosting the Board Meeting, and to
Carol Hirata for making the Peach Cobbler!

Have a fabulous fall!

Tom Haiston, Harbor Walk HOA President

[[Home]]

