* Why your ideas don't matter *                 -*-muse-*-

Is it frustrating to you that you get these great ideas but can get
anyone to take action on them?  Have you ever had a great idea that
you found years later as a product?

I used to have great ideas (or so I thought), that never went
anywhere. An idea is a seed of something great.  It is not the great
thing itself.  An idea, by itself, is not really a thing of value.  It
must be cultivated and developed in order to blossom into something
worthwhile. 

The idea is the conception point of something great.  Once an idea is
born it can grow into a project.  This takes it from the realm of
possibility to the realm of actuality.  Most ideas are not strong
enough to support this type of investment, but some are.

I'm an engineer by profession.  We translate ideas into practical
things to make life better.  The true value of an idea is in the thing
that is produced by the idea.  Does it solve a real-world problem?

Many people wish to sell their ideas.  They falsely assume that they
are the first person to think of it.  In reality, many people think of
the same improvements when seeing a specific problem.  But few people
make the investment required to bring the idea to life.

Developing an idea requires invention.  Seeing the potential is one
thing, but realizing the actual potential is another.  True invention
requires solving all of the problems that make something inpractical.

Buisness always rewards people who create things.  There is not much
value for those who merely dream about inventing things.  Consider
developing an inventory of great ideas that you have.

Visit this inventory frequently.  Select the strongest ideas and
figure out what the next step should be.  Does the concept itself need
to improved?  Are you ready to build a prototype?  Is it ready to turn
into a business?  Are you ready to publish the idea as a book?

Grow your ideas.  Treasure them.  Cultivate them.  Let them produce
value for you.  Don't neglect them.
