* Grow *                 -*-muse-*-

Most people get to a place in life where they decide to stop growing.
The risk of trying new things becomes greater than the risk of missing
out.   It is time to play it safe and do what is comfortable and
familiar. 

This is really tragic.  We were made to take risks and to have new
experiences. Once you start trying to eliminate all risks you open the
door to be controlled by fear.  I mind-set of safety can easily take
the place of one of adventure.

I love it when I see elderly people trying new things.  This fights
against our natural tendency to settle into familiar patterns and
consider nothing else.

Life is a challenge ... to our autonomy, to our mastery, to our
purpose.  It is all to easy to adopt a passive attitude.  But if you
do you miss out on the process of growth.

When you were young you were naturally inclined to take on new
challenges and strive for mastery.  That same force of change and
growth can serve you throughout your life.

Last night, we were in the Tokyo airport when the earthquake hit.
There had been a large magnitude quake a month earlier, with smaller
quakes happening consistently since then.  With a potential nuclear
disaster looming people were very insistent that we were in great
danger traveling to Japan.

There are many real dangers in life.  But it is impossible to avoid
all danger.  In fact, doing so, puts you in a mind-set of fear.
Instead of trying to remove all risks, consider maximizing your life
experiences.

Look for way to become fully engaged with the story around you.  Find
opportunities to serve and learn from others.  This is where growth
begins.  Take more chances not less.  

You will typically find that the next quake you experience will not
bring the disaster you feared. Most of the real dangers that you
experience are not the ones that you choose. The ones that you select
are typically calculated risks.

I meet way too many people that have not taken enough risk and too few
that have taken too many.
