* A drive to invent *                 -*-muse-*-

Since the time I was a child I have been interested in technology. I
have always been fascinated with the way things work. My parents were
not always pleased when my curiosity drove me to take things apart to
figure out how they worked. Over time though, this has developed into
an adult-level understanding of invention and productivity. These
natural tendencies are now coupled with experience and allow me to
apply my energy to helping other people with technology.

In college I studied electrical engineering and graduated at the top
of my class in 1981. After graduation I took a job with
Hewlett-Packard and began designing disk drive controllers. My first
project was a gigantic, 400 MB disk drive the size of a washing
machine. During the course of my 25 years at HP I had the opportunity
to design parts of many wonderful products, including: scanners, OCR
software, web sites, printers, and digital cameras. One of the
greatest joys for me is to walk into a store that carries consumer
electronics and see all of the many products that I contributed to.

In 2007 I followed my dream and started a company, called Shrinking
World Solutions. This company would serve the needs of businesses and
non-profit organizations. Over the years I have had a lot of
interactions with small business owners and non-profit leaders. Almost
universally I see the same issues in play. Small organizations
desperately need to utilize technology. However, it is bewildering to
the leaders. How do we set it up? How do we keep it running? What if
it doesn't do what was promised? These concerns are so daunting that
most leaders try to ignore technical solutions until they have a
crisis.

In the last five years, we have seen a remarkable transformation in
the high-tech industry. The internet has become the focal point for
virtually all software. This allows people with nothing more than an
internet connection to operate on a level playing field. Large
companies with dedicated IT departments become very similar to a small
business that relies on remote software to operate.

The world has truly become a small place. Small businesses can now
sell products and services globally. The internet opens a new world of
possibilities for businesses and organizations. Now it is no longer
necessary to expend large amounts of capital to reach a global
audience. This shrinking world phenomenon is at the doorstep of every
small business and non-profit organization.

Shrinking World Solutions empowers you to reach the world, by offering
low-cost technology and training on how to get the most from it. I
believe in using low-cost tools that already exist, but also have the
capability to produce new solutions when needed. Solutions don't have
to be complicated to meet the challenge either; you just have to know
how things really work first.
