* Breakdown tasks *                 -*-muse-*-

It is impossible to do a project.  You can only do a series of
specific actions that will advance the project toward its goals.
Procrastination is typically a result of the indecision that results
from the overwhelming number of choices for what to do.

You break this deadlock by decomposing a large project into a series
of smaller projects.  This about your project as an outline of
projects.  At each level completing the project is a matter of
completing each of the projects underneath of it.

The project plan is nothing more than the mapping of the projects into
sub-projects.  Two important questions emerge: How many sub-projects
should be under each of the projects?  How deep should the planning
process go?

The value of any list decreases with the length.  A flat list of the
hundred things that you need to do has little value and will overwhelm
you.  A good rule of thumb is to start with three things that must be
done and allow it to grow as the problem dictates.

Don't use any more than seven projects under one project. Use nesting
to capture the additional detail. This will also force you to balance
the sub-projects relative to each other.  For example, when writing a
book you would not plan it out as "Think about title", "Write and
publish all content".  Pick sub-projects that are roughly equal is
size and scope.

The depth that you do when planning is an important choice that you
make.  Choose a depth that allows you to accurately see the scope of
your project.  Use past experience to determine how to breakdown the
first few levels.  The planning that you do now will set how you will
track progress during the project.  But at this point in the project,
you don't need to plan out all of the details.

Once you have created the initial task breakdown it is time to begin
doing the work that you have outlined.  Start by taking the first
lowest-level task in your outline. Estimate how long this will take.
If this task will take longer than a day then repeat the simple
planning steps to decompose only this task into a smaller set of tasks
(each of which require no more than one day to complete).

This planning method gives you lots of detail for things that are very
close while retaining flexibility for future changes in the project.
It provides you with a very simple and robust plan for getting all the
way from the start of the project to the end goals.
