* Build your habits *                 -*-muse-*-

Sometimes we consciously decide to do something.  At other times, we
automatically respond without thinking about it at all.  This behavior
of automatic response is a habit.  We all have them, both good and
bad.  Habits can be a powerful ally or a formidable foe.  The good
news is that we can shape our automatic responses. We can choose to
change habits to ones that get us closer to our life goals.



Take a moment and think of a habit that you would like to change.
This can be either a destructive habit that you desire to stop or a
new good habit that you would like to begin. Changing a habit requires
programming a new automatic response.  This typically takes about
thirty repetitions of unbroken practice in order to stick.  During
this time you focus you conscious attention on the new habit in hopes
of programming an automatic

response.  The bad news is that this takes a lot of effort and
resolve.  The good news is that once the habit has taken then you no
longer need that conscious attention to continue.



It is hard to maintain motivation all alone.  Telling others about
your desire to establish a new habit can often help.  Accountability
can help you stay motivated by applying healthy peer pressure.  In
addition to your own internal motivation for change you have the fear
of embarrassment spurring you forward.



This is very important! Change one thing at a time.  It takes a lot of
energy to establish a new habit.  Trying to be heroic and change
several things at once will likely result in abandoning all of the
desired behaviors before any of them become habits.  If you want to be
aggressive then plan ahead to make one single change each month.
Fully master each new habit before moving to the next one.



Small life-long changes are much more useful than dramatic short-term
changes.  Never commit to a change unless you believe that it could be
sustained for the rest of your life.  Reduce your glorious goal to a
subset that can be sustained.  Pick goals where your success is
absolutely assured.  Then you can pick a more aggressive goal next
month.  Success produces motivation, failure breeds despair.  Take
small steps and protect the gains.
