* Competitors become partners *                 -*-muse-*-

Amazing things can happen when we change the way that we look at the
world. Many people see through a lens of 'Scarcity'. This produces a
feeling that there is a limited amount of resources that must be
shared by everyone. If someone else gets a bigger piece of the pie, I
will get a smaller one. This attitude is based upon the assumption of
fixed resources.

What if the resources were not fixed but unlimited? How would that
affect our perception? When we see the world through a lens of
'Abundance', we open ourselves to the opportunities that surround
us. If we believe that the pie is of an adjustable size, then we begin
to explore how we can make the pie bigger. If we are able to enlarge
the pie, we all benefit.

Every business and organization competes in some way for customers,
members, or awareness. This is often viewed as a competition for fixed
resources: 'If I get more someone else must get less.' Many of these
situations, however, allow us to find opportunities that allow
everyone to come out better. This attitude of abundance allows us to
pursue cooperation over competition.

Is your organization really at odds with every other organization in
the world, or are there ways that you share common goals and interests
with others? Try to identify these common points of connection and
find ways to establish alliances that let you both succeed. Two
organizations that are aligned on a common goal can be much more
effective than both of them working independently.

A word of caution must be added to this message: the relationship will
work well only if you are in agreement about the goal. If you do not
have agreement on the desired outcome, the coordination may fail. You
may find yourselves working at cross-purposes.

You must also be careful to allow time for the relationship to
develop. Do not expect marriage on the first date. Select a project of
mutual interest and see how that develops before making a larger
commitment to each other.

My experience working with many organizations over the years is that
not enough of them think about how to work with others. Most people
are so consumed with their own challenges that they are blinded to
some great opportunities around them.

Take a few minutes and think about the best opportunity that you have
to work with someone in another organization. What is the common goal?
What would you get out of the deal? What would they get? Is it worth
the effort?
