* Craft Your Plans *                 -*-muse-*-

Becoming a master at personal planning is essential for everyone.  The
specifics vary but each of us need to find techniques that enable us
to be more effective at using our limited personal resources.  Time,
energy, money, and health can so easily be squandered.



There has been a great deal written about personal management.  This
can sometimes seem so complicated that it produces inaction.  Personal
management is actually quite easy but it takes practice to become a
master.



Planning occurs in different time frames.  Already today, you have
been thinking about actions that you need to do and projects with
loose ends that need attending.  You have probably also been thinking
about the roles that you play and dreams and fears of the future.
Your planning needs to embrace all of the different ideas.



Planning is simply decision making about the future.  It starts by
looking at risks and values.  The risks are bad things that might
happen and your job is to make decisions that will reduce the negative
impact.  The values are what you desire most out of life.  Identifying
these hopes and fears helps you create a path that gives you the
greatest possible well-being.



A good place to start in planning is to start with what you value.
Make a list of the things in your life that are particularly dear to
you.  This will help to focus your attention on what really matters.



You can also look at where you spend your time and money.  Is there a
gap between these two views?  If so then it will be the source of a
lot of emotional discord.  If you treasure vacation, but haven't taken
one in twelve years then you are in trouble.  Time to begin planning
your vacation.  If you value education, but never got your high school
degree then you are certain to be in turmoil.



Before you can do effective short-term planning it is important to do
this self-assessment.  Is what you value directly correlated with how
you are spending your life.  If there is a disconnect then it must be
addressed before dealing with other planning details.
