* Finding a Community *                 -*-muse-*-

Finding an online community to join is sometimes difficult. With the
explosion of the internet and the proliferation of discussion forums,
blogs, webinars, and groups, it can be very confusing. There are
probably groups out there that are discussing exactly what you need to
know, but where do you start?

I would recommend that you start reading one or two blogs (web logs)
that are related to your interests. Blogs are quickly becoming one of
the main ways for content to be published on the internet. There is a
great tool for searching through blogs at http://technorati.com.

Technorati is your gateway to the world of blogging. From here you
will be able to search for content you care about throughout the
'blogosphere'. You will also be able to see the most popular blogs on
the internet (by number of readers).

Often, bloggers are tied into other forms of online community. Once
you find a blog you like, you can see other related web sites and
online communities either in the overview for the blog or in the
content itself. If you are still looking for other connections to this
content, then send email to the blogger and ask for advice.

People online can be extremely helpful. There are certainly miscreants
out there creating viruses and spam, but most people are eager to
provide useful information. The internet is a worldwide intellectual
commons where someone able to navigate its highways and byways can
easily access millions of other people.

The intent of Shrinking World Online (located at
http://shrinking-world.org) is to give people a place to interact with
others on the topics of Technology, Business, Leadership, and
Community. We believe that people working together can do so much more
than they can individually. A community is built around this goal of
mutual benefit.

Learn from Others! The internet is a phenomenal place to learn. There
are so many interesting sources of information. Never before has so
much data been so close to so many. Yet, at the same time, it can be
hard to find things. It can also be hard to connect with others.

A community provides a social connection with other people that share
your interests. It sets you on a path that will cause that interest to
grow in a certain direction. For example, if you are interested in
creating websites, joining a website design group will cause you to
learn things that you did not specifically set out to learn.

The power of an online community is much like the benefit of belonging
to a community 'in the real world'. We share experiences, hopes,
dreams and fears with one another. In doing so, we learn at a faster
level and have a richer journey along the way.

If you are hoping to grow in some area, find an online community that
will help you. The benefit of the internet is that your community can
be composed of people all over the world. While you may have a hard
time finding someone with your interest locally, there may be
thousands elsewhere.

If your interest is Technology, Business, Leadership, or Community
then you can find kindred spirits at http://shrinking-world.org. This
is an online community dedicated to discussing those topics. We hope
to see you there.
