* Focus your energy *                 -*-muse-*-

Do you ever wish your live was filled with the things that really
matter and lighter on everything that zaps your energy?  Join the
club!  This is the essence of a simple lifestyle.  One of life's
greatest mysteries is learning how to live for the things that matter.

Creating a simple lifestyle does not happen automatically.  In fact
the opposite is true.  If we let things occur naturally we take on
more and more commitments until we are overwhelmed by the expectations
of others, and our own aspirations.

A simple life requires thought and discipline. It comes from
systematically evaluating what is really important.  When you know
that you can try to eliminate, or at least reduce, everything else.
This is a journey of self-discovery that will produce many benefits
for you.

A simple lifestyle is not easy to achieve precisely because it
requires a great deal of analysis.  By default many things that we
don't value creep into our lives.  They crowd out what really matters.
The motivation to simplify comes from a realization that life can
easily pass us by without ever experiencing the things of most value.
This is the source of true regret.

Understanding ourselves is the key to simplifying things. Each of us
have different gifting and personal characteristics.  There are
activities that play to our strengths. When we know the types of
situations where our strengths can shine we can consciously look for
more of them.  Simplifying our lives include being more selective
about activities that we are involved in.

Simplifying is a process.  You don't just wake up one morning and
notice that you have a simple lifestyle.  Instead each few days you make
a decision to make a small change.

Become intentional about the way that you live.  Choose to give
your time to the people and activities that you value.  Stubbornly
refuse to invest time in activities that do not yield fruit.

Here are some tips to help you in your search of a simpler life.  We
live in a world and a time that puts constant pressure on us.  We need
more stuff and need to be involved in more things, or so we are told.
There comes a time for us to say no to these demands and reshape our
lives.

Creating a simpler life is primarily about making choices.  Instead of
trying to meet all possible goals, we focus on those that we feel most
passionate about.  Clearly everything is not equally important to us.
Simplifying means being more selective about how we spend our time and
our money.

A simple life is one where our time is spend on the things that we
love with the people that we love.  In order to maximize the
activities that produce the highest benefit we must minimize other
activities that are less worthy of the investment.

Likewise, a simple life also involves how we spend our money.  Some
things we invest in get us closer to our goals while others do not.
Many items that we buy do not produce the value that justifies their
cost.  Money spent requires an investment in time to work to cover the
cost.

Because money can be converted into time (and the counterpart), we can
see that our handling of both time and money are interlinked.  In
order to simplify our lives we need to limit the commitments and
purchases that we make to the essentials.

Find those areas to commit extra resources where the passion is the
highest.  The extra investment in those activities will come by
reducing the low value ones. Selection is the key to simplifying your
life.

Make a list of your top five goals.  What would make your life feel
more fulfilling?  Are you investing in these areas?  Can you get more
of this?  Are you willing to reduce the other less fulfilling
activities to get more of your top goals?  The journey will be fun.
