* Identify your values *                 -*-muse-*-

What we say we value and what we actually treasure can be two
different things.  Many people can not readily identify the things
that they value even though they are motivated by them each day.

Values are at the core of our lifestyle.  What we value says a lot
about what we believe.  To a very large degree, they determine our
behavior.  Therefore it is important to understand our true values.

Please note that this can often be different than what we might tell
someone else that we value.  Expressed values are about relationship,
and the expectations of others.  You may have a different, and
sometimes contradictory set of values that govern your daily actions.

If these are not consistent with our expressed values then they are
hidden because we are ashamed to tell others how we really feel.  This
can lead to unhealthy attitudes and interactions with others.  It is
much better to understand and express what you really hold dear to
those close to you.  This integrity will, most likely, improve your
relationships.

Values provide the motivation that we need to deal with difficult
situations.  They determine what we are willing to sacrifice for and
what can be easily abandoned.  Both our finest and darkest moments are
related to what we value.

It is important to understand your own values since they are at the
root of so much. Try the following exercise. Make a list of everything
that you value.  If you are having difficulty then use Google to help
by typing "Values" to get a list of possible values.  You should start
with at least 30 items on your list.

Prune the list to get your top ten.  The top ten values would be
things that you would consider changing your life for.  These are
"must haves" not merely "nice to haves".  If you are having difficulty
selecting the top ten then, ask which of two things you would rather
have.

For example, asking "Would I leave my job in order to be independent?"
will help you understand whether security, or independence are higher
on your list.  Find hypothetical situations that shed light on your
trade-offs.

Now identify the top five and finally the top three.  This is a
process of further honing a selecting.  As you went through the
earlier list you may have encountered something in the list where you
felt an emotional surge.  That is an indicator.  What would you lay
your life down for?  What would you sacrifice your financial
well-being for?

These top three values are the critical issues that will drive you to
establish relationships, quit a job, or relocate to a new city.
Without these values you believe that your life is not
worthwhile. Congratulations, you now understand yourself at a deeper
level than 90% of people out there.

This knowledge will inform all of your other decisions.  It will give
you insight to select opportunities as they arise and say "no" to
things that don't make the cut.
