* Investigate *                 -*-muse-*-

Humans are naturally curious.  Allow yourself to pursue your
inquisitive side.  Ask yourself, "Why?"

There is a reason for everything.  If you hope to make lasting change
you must understand why things are that way.  It is too easy to change
a symptom without addressing the underlying cause.  This will
inevitably fail and potentially create an even worse situation.

Nothing preserves the status quo more than a failed attempt at change.
"Oh, we tried that and look where it got us", is the sure sign that
that change was applied without understanding the real cause.  Don't
pick the leaves, go for the roots.

After identifying your primary pain it is time to explore causes.  The
initial problem that you selected is probably too large.  You may need
to drill down at least one level to find something that you can
successfully change.

Every opportunity can be broken into smaller ones.  Identify areas
that you wish to change and ask, "Why is it this way currently?"
Repeat this process until you reach a level where you think you can
solve the problem.

Dig deeper!  It is vital to thoroughly understand why things are a
certain way. To do this we can take our main problem and find reasons
why it is that way. This will typically yield several different
causes. For example, poor customer satisfaction can be caused by poor
quality, missed deliveries, or bad support experiences.

One of these causes may dominate. If you hope to move the primary
issue, invest in changing the issues that are most responsible for the
cause. This get you one step closer to the root issue.

To get deeper is to repeat the practice of asking "Why?". Process
experts recommend asking "Why?" five times before being satisfied that
you have found the correct issue to fix. In other words, you may need
to drill down on a problem five times in order to get to the root
source that causes it.

If you are prepared to invest in analyzing a problem in this way your
likelihood of solving greatly it increases. As an incentive think
about the impact of truly solving a huge problem that you have been
wrestling with. How much is this solution worth to your organization?
How much time and money should you invest in order to fix it. Here's a
hint. Only work on problems that have at least five times the pay-back
(considering investment/benefit).




