* Just enough planning *                 -*-muse-*-

How you approach planning can determine your effectiveness. Planning is neither an end in itself
nor a boring activity that stifles creativity and wastes time.  When properly used planning can
amplify your productivity by reducing rework.

Why plan at all? At its core planning is simply identifying likely risks and making decisions that
mitigate their effect.  You want to guarantee some expected outcome so you try to stack the deck in
your favor.  Planning is imagining the path that will get to the end goal.

It is important to separate planning from convincing, although they may occur at the same time.
Convincing is selling your plan to others in a way that creates "buy in".  An excellent way to
generate emotional buy-in for a plan is to involve others in its creation.  However, there are
several aspects of planning itself that are important to understand before combining it with
convincing others.

Risk mitigation is the goal of every plan.  If nothing can derail your project then no plan is
required.  You don't need a plan to wash the dishes; you just do it.  On the other hand, you can't
build a software application without a plan.  There are too many unknowns that you must control.

Start your planning by fast-forwarding to a bleak future, in which your project has failed.  What
went wrong and how could you have prevented it?  At its core this is all planning is.

What are the five greatest risks to your project? Forget about everything else.  If you don't
address your top five issues then nothing else matters.  These may change over time.  More on that
later.

Why five?  Humans are very good at storing a small number of items in short-term memory.  You want a
short list of thing that can be readily remembered and communicated.

These top five risks should be written and posted somewhere that is readily visible.  Throughout the
day you should observe this list at least once an hour.  It provides your emotional motivation for
your actions.

Why not three?  There are many different risks that affect you.  It is important for you to have
some peripheral vision.  Risks that appear on the list may quickly become your top issue.  But
rarely, do that appear out of nowhere.

You may already be tracking the key issue and you know when it is changing in priority. You need to
actively monitor and evaluate the relative priority of your top five issues.  Respond to new
information as it become available.

Decide what you will do about each of the top issues.  What action can you take that will
significantly lower the risk?  Sometimes, a single action can have a big impact on a specific risk.
More often, there are several actions that are required to more the mountain.
