* Make constant improvements *                  -*-muse-*-

When it comes to changing habits, small consistent changes are far
better than large ones. The reason is simple. A large change is almost
always temporary while a small one is sustainable.

Rather than trying to change everything thing at once, consider
embracing an attitude of sustainable change. Adopt a mind-set of
analysis and constantly apply minor improvements. Apply changes one at
a time.

Any change that you apply should be sustainable for the rest of your
life. Consider carefully one minor tweak and then fully adopt it into
your life before you choose the next one. Build incrementally on what
is already effective in your life.

You will need to develop four essential competencies. These are the
abilities to Learn, Plan, Invent, and Teach. In this series of
articles you will learn to apply these capabilities to build a system
of constant innovation for your organization.

The whole process of innovation begins with Learning. This includes
the ability to analyze the problem, understand all the key
constraints, and identify possible solutions. In future articles we
will explore each of these key aspects in detail. For now, think about
a problem area that you need to improve. Jot down a few ideas related
to these three aspects: Analysis, Constraints, and Solutions.

Now we are ready to proceed to the Planning stage. The three phases of
planning are: establish objectives, prioritize the possible solutions,
and breakdown the specific tasks for the projects that you intend to
implement. The objectives you set will help you to do the cost-benefit
analysis that is needed to prioritize between alternatives. The
tactical planning is usually the simplest planning step.

The Inventing stage is when you apply the solution you created and
measure the results. It is critical to set up the change as a
controlled experiment to confirm what you thought would happen. These
changes should always be applied incrementally to guarantee that you
are producing the desired result from your change. Implement only one
change at a time, and reject changes that do not produce the benefit
that you expected.

Teaching is about standardizing the result. You should create a new
script for the improved process. This change must be communicated to
everyone that is affected by it. This won't happen automatically. The
change should also be applied in a slightly different context to see
if it holds up well there too.

This all sounds very simple, and it actually is. The process of
improvement is very straightforward. Most people don't do it because
thinking through each of these steps can be difficult. Having a
structure makes it easier to progress through each of the steps and
achieve the results that you need. Try this on one nasty problem and
see if you agree.

Improvement is about change and looking critically at what works and
what doesn't. It may require breaking new ground and trying something
that no one has ever tried. But it may also be adopting a best
practice that you have seen applied in a different context. Driving
improvement takes a certain mind-set. It requires that we ask, 'How can
this be better?', 'What would I really like from this process?'. It
requires an attitude of optimism and the ability to see the potential
beyond the current reality.

An innovative mind-set will help you to overcome the inevitable
resistance that you will encounter as you begin to change
things. Think about what must change in your environment. What things
could use improvement? What would bring you the greatest benefit? What
would be best case scenario look like? What obstacles must be overcome
to get to that new potential? These are the questions that a true
innovator asks.

The clarity of the answers will allow you to share your vision of the
new future with those around you. Great changes always involve
others. By having a firm understanding of where you need to go, you
can build a team of people to help you get there.

Begin looking at your life through the eyes of possibility. What would
the ideal look like? You may not be that far off. Use the 80/20 rule,
which says that 20% of the effort may get you 80% of the desired
benefit. In other words, focus on a few high-impact areas for
improvement, rather than trying to change everything. Pick the single
largest improvement and create a different there.
