* Make a Difference *                 -*-muse-*-

We all want to make a difference. We each want to do something of
lasting value. Every one of us would like to help others improve their
lives in some way. Otherwise, we would stay in bed all day and watch
old TV reruns.

But this burning desire to produce value often leaves people feeling
frustrated. They want to benefit others but don't seem to find the
opportunities that they need to do so. This is where you, as a leader,
can step in and help them. You can define ways for people to
contribute to some purpose that is beyond themselves.

In fact, the process of defining opportunities for others will lead
you on a personal journey of your own. By looking for ways to 'give
back' to your community, you will become aware of opportunities that
have been missing for years.

There is something extremely beneficial and fulfilling about trying to
help others. It gives purpose and meaning to everything that we
do. This is an area that represents a significant part of each of our
lives. People that can not see beyond their own needs become
increasingly in-grown and self-centered. It is also difficult for
these people to have any sort of meaningful relationships.

Some leaders are already committed to so many projects and causes that
gathering more commitments would be harmful rather than beneficial. If
you are one of these leaders, I encourage you to begin thinking about
how you can get others excited about helping you. Instead of
increasing your commitment level you can try to increase the
commitment of others you know.

Can you think of a project that you are involved in currently? Are
there too few people to help and too much work to accomplish? Who do
you know that could benefit from this opportunity to serve? Select
people who are under-committed today. Don't choose the overworked
rowers that are already in your boat.

Think about this new opportunity from the perspective of the potential
server. Is it a good opportunity for them? Do they bring strengths and
passions that are well suited to the project? If so, then this is a
project that could be very meaningful to them. Don't be apologetic
about asking for their help. If you are trying to help yourself you
probably should not ask. But if you truly believe this is an
opportunity that will enhance their life then go for it.
