* Open Source *                 -*-muse-*-

One of the most amazing things has happened over the last few years,
the Open Source movement has completely changed the nature of software
engineering, the high-tech industry, and our society in general. Open
Source software is created by teams of people working for free. Yes,
you read right. People from different companies, nations, and
professions willingly work together to create high-quality
software. This software is then distributed and supported free of
charge.

I first came across Open Source software in the mid-eighties. Richard
Stallman created an organization called the 'Free Software
Foundation'. This team published a manifesto that was based on the
idea that software should be owned by everyone, and that it was
immoral for companies to hoard this value to themselves. While Stallman
was pretty extreme in his views, he created a movement that was to
change the world.

Much of the explosive growth in the internet was caused by the
availability of free software. Without it, innovation would be much
more expensive and the higher development costs would make all
software many times more expensive than what we see today. This would
seriously curtail the new applications that anyone can use today.

Today you can get high-quality tools in every possible category,
including all of the most important office applications (including
word processors, spreadsheets, presentations, databases, graphics
editors, operating systems, and email). These applications are the
lifeblood of any business. You cannot run a business without them, and
the Open Source versions rival the commercial versions in every
category.

I have outfitted my business, Shrinking World Solutions, using Open
Source software. To set up a new computer in our company we install a
stack of about 20 applications. These are all free and give everyone
in the company the exact same tools and configuration. This software
configuration would cost around $5,000 per computer, but with cheap
hardware, we can set up a new computer for $300 and two hours of time.
