* Optimize Essential Tasks *                 -*-muse-*-

There are some things that you do many times every day, and these tasks govern your effectiveness.
These are either tasks that consume a large chunk of your time, ones that you do many times
throughout the day, or tasks that will cause you great remorse if neglected.

These task (taken together) are your essential tasks.  How you deal with these will largely
determine your personal effectiveness.  It may help to highlight a few essential tasks in each of
the three categories.

I am a consultant so each month invoices must be created.  This is not a complicated task but it can
be time-consuming.  Because this is recurring and costly it is an essential task for me.  Instead of
spending time just creating the invoice I try to invest the same amount of time improving the way
that I create an invoice.

If it takes me a thirty minutes to create an invoice then it would be better to invest thirty
minutes today to let me create an invoice next time in fifteen minutes.

The rule of thumb is that if you have a recurring job that takes X to do then invest X in trying to
get the job to cost X/2.  On your second time you will break even.  In our example, it took 60
minutes (30+30) to create three invoices the old way, and now it takes 60 minutes (30+15+15).  If
you do 24 invoices a year you save 5 1/2 hours (15m*24-30m).

You save the most by improving the tasks that take the largest percentage of your time.  In our
invoicing example we were dealing with a task that takes 12 hours in a year.  Consider a task that
consumes 40% of your work time.  Now you're talking about a whopping 800 hours every year.  If you
could find a way to improve this essential task by 50% then you could save 400 hours every year.

I recommend that you use this type of a simple calculation with your most essential tasks.  These
are the ones that when gathered represent the bulk of your time investment.  In the previous example
if you could get a gain of 400 hours in a year then it would be worth investing up to 400 hours to
achieve it.  Remember that time invested in improving continues to pay you back.
