* Reduce Stress by Doing Less *                 -*-muse-*-

Reduce your stress by doing fewer things.  You are probably juggling many different projects,
whether you have them listed or not. Clarifying your active projects will greatly reduce your
stress.  Understanding all of your activities gives you a chance to prioritize them.

Some of your projects are not essential and may be even a distraction.  Examine your projects and
prioritize the important ones. Reduce the effort expended on the others.  This will let you put
more energy into what really matters.

Each project has some desired goal.  A project is just a series of tasks that result in the goal.
Some project be accomplished in a single action, but most often require several actions to complete.
You need to track all of your active projects, to make sure that you stay on course.

Make a list of all of the things that are on your mind.  Writing them down gives you confidence that
you will not lose track of them.  Scan this list periodically to recall the things that you need to
be working on. Write a single list so that you can find all of your projects in one place.  This
lets you quickly review everything at once.  Having multiple lists creates confustion.

Create another list of projects that you are not actively committed to spend time on.  Keep from
forgetting totally about these other goals by putting them on the "Someday" list.  It moves them
out of the way.  You do not need to worry about all of these items as you do your active projects.
Most people have about 20-30 active projects at any time.  There may be 50 more things that
you would like to do someday. Don't let these items take any of your daily attention.

The list of active projects should be updated daily.  As new projects are discovered then just
add them to the list.  Pick a name that represents the goal of the project. Remove things from the
project list when you no longer feel that the project needs your active attention.  This list is an
effective tool only if it truly represents what you need to focus your attention on.
