* Pursue your passion *                 -*-muse-*-

A life without passion is not much of a life.  Yet many of us are
resigned to trudging instead of prancing through life.  All of us have
times of great joy when doing certain activities.  The specific
activities differ, but everyone has them.  There is excitement as you
anticipate, exhilaration as you participate, and deep satisfaction as
you reflect.



These activities are innately life-giving because they are custom
suited to you, a perfect match for your personal characteristics.  For
some people the perfect day is one spent doing contract negotiation,
or fly fishing, or jumping out of airplanes.  For me all of these
would be nightmare scenarios.



Certain activities appeal to you because of your unique
characteristics.  What you find stimulating will not transfer to
someone else because they are not you.  Each person is hard-wired to
respond to things in a unique way.  This leads each of us to different
passions.



Think of the last time that you were utterly ecstatic to be doing
something that you love.  You felt, "This is what I'm made for."  You
were thrilled as long as it lasted and sorry to see it end.  You
immediately started thinking about the next time.  That is your
passion.



There are also times when you feel like you are going through the
motions.  There is no joy, no interest, no fun, no passion.  That is
no way to be spending your time.  Consider renegotiating these
commitments to reduce your involvement.  Shift that time to activities
that bring you passion.  Life is too short to be stuck doing what you
are not created for.



Think about a subtle change that you could make to your lifestyle to
allow more opportunity for your passionate activity.  If you
automatically reject this notion because of a sense of duty to others
then you are on dangerous ground.  Denying you own internal passions
is a sure way to manufacture a crisis.  Instead, understand you
passions and find a way to satisfy them while still fulfilling
commitments to others.



Think about the next week.  What change could you make to give you an
extra opportunity to do your favorite activity?  Can you do your
activity as part of other goals?  This is worth putting come
creativity into.




