* Clarify Your Roles *                 -*-muse-*-

 What we do is largely determined by our roles.  But what is a role?  Think of a role as a long-term
 commitment that you made to pursue a set of goals.

You may have taken on the role of lover, father, employee, or accountant at your comic book
store. Each of these roles comes with a set of goals and expectations.  Some of the expectations may
be from others, but the important ones are those that you have for yourself.  Fulfilling a role
means achieving these goals.

When you take on a role you are committing to a plan of action.  For example, when you choose to
role of lover, you decide that you want to make the associated trade-offs.  As an employee you get
certain benefits and take on the goals of your employer.  Each role that we are in constrains our
actions in exchange for the opportunities it gives.

A role is a choice of some segment of lifestyle.  Some soles you choose willingly and others are
thrust upon you.  Either way your role will determine your actions.

Each role that you take on will have goals associated with it.  Understanding your roles will help
you in planning, which will help you achieve goals and be more effective.

Try this exercise.  It may seem trivial at first, but is harder than you think.  Select a role to
work on.  Make a list of concrete goals that you have.  Don't select fuzzy goals like, 'Be a better
person', but measurable goals like, 'Do dishes for a week'.

Identifying real steps you will take to fill that role is a huge step forward.  For each role you
can probably identify ten projects.  A project is this context is simply a set of actions with a
clear goal in mind.  This is what you can focus your effort on to be more effective in that role.
Fulfilling goals is how you fill roles.

How many roles do you have?  Look at what takes you time.  Most people have around ten roles.  In
your work alone you probably have three to five roles.  Charting each of these out gives you a very
clear picture of your like and your time commitments.

I may seem overwhelming to you at first, that you have a hundred different project going.  But the
reality is that all of these do not have equal priority.  The next exercise will give you some peace
of mind.

Take you list of ten roles with ten projects each.  Go through each role and select the top three
project goals.  These are the most important things to work on within each role.

Next, identify the top three roles that you wish to focus on in the next month.  You have now
identified the nine projects that should rock your world.  Put these goals at center stage and give
special attention to them.

Consider repeating this planning once a month.  There will be a few adjustments to make each time
you go through it.  But many of the things on the list will remain the same.

This type of planning gives you confidence that you are investing in things that you really care
about.  It lets you connect the everyday events to your long-term goals.
