* Secrets of delegation *                 -*-muse-*-

Master the art of delegation. Fully leverage your superpower while still accomplishing many tasks
that are outside of it. Using others to complete activities that are not part of your core strengths
lets you concentrate on your areas of brilliance. However, delegation can be tricky. It's not
complex, but it may be hard to figure out how to make it work well.

I recommend setting up delegation as three components: selecting tasks, setting expectations, and
verifying the results. Every task worth delegating is worth setting up in this way. You should
consciously think through each of these elements or just do the task yourself.

Not every task should be delegated. They should be carefully selected using the following criteria:

1. Does delegating this task save me significant time? If not don't delegate.

2. Is the goal clear enough to communicate efficiently? If not then you may have to do so much
communication and redirection that it loses the benefit you were hoping to achieve.

3. Will you repeat this task many times? You get the biggest benefits from delegating tasks that can
be taught once and repeated many times without having to do additional training. Think about the
one-time setup costs and the setup costs associated with repeating the task.

Once you have selected the task it is time to set expectations. Start by deciding the objectives
that you have for the task. What will the completed result be like? How long will it take? What are
the keys for success? How much should it cost? How will you verify and incorporate the results?

These expectations must be written down and given to the person that is to carry out the
task. Unspoken expectations are road to disappointment. Special care should be given to new tasks
that you have not done before.

Before you can communicate expectations clearly, you should consider performing the tasks three
times yourself. The first time allows you to decide what you are really looking for. The second time
lets you write down a pattern that can be followed by another person about the steps that they
should follow to achieve the desired results. The third time allows you to verify that the pattern
actually works. This written pattern is the simplest form of training and will save you a lot of
time in discussions with the person doing the work.

The third aspect of delegation is verifying that the results are acceptable and incorporating them
into your organization. This involves acceptance testing and integration. If you have done a good
job of setting the expectations then you already have a list of the acceptance criteria. This can be
used as a check list to ensure that all of the desired elements are in place. The results of the
delegated task do not produce a benefit until they have been combined with other task to produce the
desired business result. When delegating, make sure to plan for how you will benefit from the work
that is done.
