* The Value Of Others *                 -*-muse-*-

What I'm about to say is incredibly obvious to some of you and
relatively obscure to others: WE NEED OTHER PEOPLE.



Some people are naturally wired to connect with others; they make
friends quickly and can always find common ground. For others, forming
relationships is a big challenge. No matter which camp we find
ourselves in, we need the input and insight that other people have to
offer.



It can be easy for us to fool ourselves into thinking that we have a
great idea, but once we air the idea in public we may find that it
still needs more development. This is because other people are able to
see ideas from a different perspective due to their background. Ideas
are best developed and polished through the interactions of the
different viewpoints that we each bring.



Every great idea can be made better by sharing it with others. All of
us need to find a safe place to interact with others for the purpose
of developing ideas and solving problems.



Many people are reluctant to share their best ideas with others. They
falsely believe that it is safer to keep their ideas to themselves.
It is true that you should be careful about how and when you share an
idea.  However, an idea that is never shared is one that is never
tested and probably will never be developed.  When an idea is shared
it often turns into a new and more powerful idea.  So instead of
losing the original idea a new one has been given birth.



When we are trying to solve problems it is often useful to get the
input of others.  We can all benefit by the experience of others.
Most problems we encounter have been confronted and solved by someone
else.  It is good to have a community of people that can help us find
solutions that we are looking for.  These are proven techniques that
they have used and found to be effective.



We are in the process of creating such a community online. It is based
on the idea that people want to help each other succeed.  In future
articles I will be providing more information about this online
community and how you can become a part of it.
