* Travel *                 -*-muse-*-

People who travel have a broader perspective than those that do not.
Travel has a lot of interesting benefits.  It also has a fairly high
cost, so it cannot be undertaken lightly.  Consider how your learning
experiences can be augmented with travel.

There is something amazing about going to somewhere that you have read
about for years.  You are able to verify assumptions and interact with
people that can tell first-hand stories about their experiences.
Being is a place is so real and visceral compared to simply reading
about something or watching the video.

When you travel you have your own stories.  Things happen that are
frustrating, exhilarating, and scary.  It is these times that cause
you to grow personally.  These are not things that you seek out, but
if you travel much you will get some travel stories to tell.

Overcoming the obstacles that you encounter is actually one of the
main benefits of travel.  After surviving several travel ordeals you
learn to become adaptable.  This flexible is a great benefit to you in
other situations that you are likely to encounter.

Another major benefit of travel is that you gain a greater awareness
of culture.  By seeing someone else's culture first hand you learn to
make observations about your own culture.  For example, after being in
Europe, I am aware of how hurried Americans are when we eat.  If all I
were ever to experience is fast food dining, then it would not be
obvious how unusual that is.

It is impossible to travel without confronting prejudice.  Both your
own judgements about others and their judgements toward use surface
when keep assumptions are challenged.  People that never travel can
carefully protect their own illusions of reality, but these are
dispelled when you come face-to-face with people that live in another
reality.

The other major benefit of travel is that it is intellectually
stimulating.  Anywhere you go is a change in context.  You are likely
to get new ideas.  The farther you go the bigger the adventure.  You
will see new places, eat new foods, hear new languages, experience new
bathroom facilities, and meet new people.

You will love it and you will hate it.  But you will be truly alive.

Traveling to other places breaks our daily habits and routines.  This
can open our eyes to new people and places if we allow it.  We can
become aware of new cultures and people that are not "just like us".
People that travel are typically much more open than those who do not.
