* Update your plan *                 -*-muse-*-

The most important aspect of light-weight planning is that it is
easily updated. Plans that require twenty hours of painful
deliberation will always far outlive their usefulness.  It must be
easy for you to make minor adjustments as you learn new information.



If your plan can be adjusted in five minutes then you will not
hesitate to do so whenever it is needed.  The most crucial planning
involves identifying the top five risks and the best action to lower
the risk.  Therefore a minimalistic plan is just a list of those risks
and the actions that will address them.



Adjusting this plan can certainly be done in five minutes.  You can
write this on a list in your pocket and review it as you wait in
line. This is portable, flexible, and yet robust enough to encourage
disciplined thinking.



As things change you can easily switch priorities on your top five
risks.  It is equally easy to decide on a different action for one of
the risks.  As new risks are discovered you can integrate them onto
your list.  Remember to prioritize the list to actively track your top
five.  Otherwise you will end up with a list of twenty things which is
the same as having no priority at all.



How often should the plan be update?  Whenever you have new
information or new ideas then update your plan.  Each time you are
ready to make a different decision then update your plan and think
about all of the implications involved.



Consider these changes as adjustments, rather than create a new plan.
You are refining your thinking based on your best knowledge at the
time.  Don't lock yourself into old ideas that no longer are optimal.
The changes are minor tweaks in a consistent overall direction.



By making small but constant changes you are always ready to respond
to the next change in your project.  No longer are you locked in to
obsolete plans that have no chance of success.  Instead you have a
consistent path forward with an infinite variety of possible paths.
