* Your Learning System *                 -*-muse-*-

Learning is too important to be left to chance.  What you learn will dictate the opportunities that
you have. You need a plan for learning and a system that allows you to track your progress.  By
following a few simple practices you can put your learning into overdrive.

A learning system should be goal oriented.  At its core you should have tools for setting and
tracking learning goals.  There are several different time horizons that you will want to work with.
You should be activity thinking about what you wish to learn in the next year, the next month, and
the next week.

Your system should be simple.  Start with a simple text file.  Any more complicated tool tempts you
to focus on the format of the information rather than the information itself.  I speak from
experience here, having used many different tools like mind-mapping, outliners, word processors and
goal setting tools.

Short is better than long. One page is more than enough to capture any set of goals that you have.
A small amount of planning is productive, but more planning is not.  Your plan should be just
comprehensive enough to give you confidence that you are working on the right things.  Any more than
that is a waste.

Start with your short term.  What are you learning this week?  Make a list of the things that you
are actively learning.  Now group these into goals for the next month.  Are there other things that
you need to learn this month that are not on this list?

Now focus on the long term.  What would you like to be learning over the next year?  As you do this
level make sure to reconcile what you are doing now with where you would like to be in a year.  When
you are done you will have a complete map of where you want to be in a year and how your daily
activities can contribute to that.

The first time that you go through this process you could easily spend an hour or two.  Once you
have your initial plan it should take no more than five minutes to review the plan and make any
minor corrections due to what has changed.  You should review this plan at least once a week.

There you have it: a simple but robust system to manage your learning, that takes one piece of paper
and five minutes per week.




