* Your Planning System *                 -*-muse-*-

David Allen describes a system for personal management.  It is
described in detail in his book, Getting Things Done.  The system that
he outlines is really a set of guiding principles.  He avoids locking
the system into a specific implementation.

An entire cottage industry has risen up to provide software and ideas for implementing a Getting
Things Done (GTD) system.  TO get a list of various software packages that you could use to setup
your own system just type "GTD software" into Google.  You will get many different software
solutions to fit every shape and size.

Create a simple system!  I've used a number of the software solutions for GTD. After spending
several week setting the system up the way that I want it always seems to end at the same point. I
can make the system do what I want but it requires a lot of mental energy to work the system. I need
a system that requires almost no thought expect the tasks themselves. The system must be transparent
and allow me to focus on the actual planning rather than the planning tool.

Here is the system that works for me. Use a text editor to create five text files. Set up a command
or window short-cut that opens all five of the text files. A tabbed text editor works great for
this. You can also open each of the files separately off of window short-cuts, but you must be able
to open any of these files with a single click.

The five files that I use are:

  * Calendar - List of events sorted by date
  * Home - List of next actions that I plan to do today (typically
    around ten items) 
  * Work - List of next action that I plan for today (typically ten items)
  * Projects - List of things to work on this week (typically around
    20-30 items grouped by categories)
  * Someday - List of things that I would like to work on someday

All day long these files are updated. Resist the temptation to add
structure to these. It is easy to get distracted by reorganizing the
list. Sort the action lists with the most urgent items at the top.

I have been following the work of David Allen, the author of "Getting Things Done" for several years
now. He has the most instructive system for managing your life. Here is a summary of how you can
apply his ideas to build your own personal task management system.

Make a simple list of the next action that should be taken in each area where you need to accomplish
something. Create another list of the projects that you are currently working on. In this context a
project is any goal that requires more than one action to achieve. It is crucial to make the next
actions very specific. They must be tasks that can be accomplished in less than an hour.

As you have time to work on your list, select a suitable task from your next action list. When
completed you may have a new action to add to the list. As things pop up you can add them to your
action list or the project list, if they require more than an hour.

Once a week make sure that you review the project list and that you have at least one next action
for each of your active projects. All you need to build a minimal task management system is a pad of
paper where you keep the two lists for your actions and projects.




