* Brain Ingredients *                 -*-muse-*-

There are several key aspects of creating an exterior brain that really works.  Consider these
ingredients when you build your own brain system.  Any missing aspects will result in
disappointments.

A brain is a system that records knowledge, stores it for a long time, and then gives it back when
you need it.  This means that it only works if you can efficiently:

 * Record
 * Store
 * Organize
 * Retrieve

Each of these tasks has implications on the ingredients needed to build a great brain.  Your tools
must have certain technical capabilities to let you easily save and recall information.

Rules for a brain that works:

 * You can put data into your brain in five seconds.
 * Every piece of information is recorded once.
 * A flexible structure is constantly evolving.
 * See what changed without remembering it.

Each of these rules is absolutely essential to have a system that works. Some systems make it easy
add informaiton but don't allow flexibility for the structure.  Other systems are very good at
remembering things but are painful to update.

Don't compromise.  Create a system that gives you everything you need. Select only tools that work
well.  Never settle for tools that do not address the core usability or technical needs that the job
demands.

Many people use tools simply because they are already familiar with them. But consider this... over
the next year you will spend at least 2,000 hours at work.  An effective brain can easily save you
500 hours in the first year alone.  Learning new tools if needed should not cost you more than 100
hours.  

Expect to invest heavily, but still get a payoff for the effort many times over in the first
year. The break-even time for building an exterior brain is probably about six months.   At this
point you will have reaped enough benefit that you will have paid off the time that you invested.

After this time you will have a robust knowledge tracking system that knows what you have decided to
put in it. This will be useful to you for years to come.  

Because you built the system from scratch, you will be able to move it with you onto new tools if
needed.  The value you have is in the actual text and links.  These will move very easily between
different systems that you will use.

The hard part is knowing how to build the system, so that it meets the demands that you will place
upon it. We will be walking through each of the steps.  We will exaime how the brain should be
constructed and used on a daily basis.
