* Brain Freshness *                 -*-muse-*-

For your brain to be useful, you must keep it fresh.  This requires
constant care and effort on your part.  Your brain is like so many
other things in life.  You get out of it what you put into it.

Information in your physical brain is stored in the corrections between
the neurons. Think of an elaborate network with roughly the number of
interconnections that the internet has.  Now condense this whole thing
down into 3-pound lump of biomass.

Our plans are not so glorious, or presumptive, but the idea of
interconnection holds.  It is the connections between the topics in
your brain that will hold the greatest value to you.  Each topic has
relationships to other topics, which will be modeled explicitly by
hyperlinks in our system.

At its core our brain is a personal wiki that can easily be edited to
provide new connections.  In fact, the usefulness of your brain is
directly related to how consistently you are modifying the connections
between topics.

The longer data exists within your system the more irrelevant it
becomes. In software, we refer to this phenomena as "bit rot". The
software stays the same while the world around it undergoes constant
change. Your information must be constantly reviewed and updated to
reflect this reality.

Think of the last information that you recorded for projects, goals,
"how to" knowledge, and great ideas.  Now scrutinize these with eyes
from your wiser future self (1 year from now).  Is it still brilliant?
Maybe so, but it would be even better if you keep it up to date.  More
likely it should be deleted or relegated to the lower dungeon.

Each topic has its own half-life.  All data does not age at the same
pace.  Consider building this into your brain directly.  One way to do
this is to have a topic that is a simple list of notes and update
times.

Each time horizon could could have its own list (Weekly, Monthly,
Quarterly, Yearly).  Add the topic to the list with its modification
date and visit this list periodically to find items whose expiration
date has expired.

I perfer to do this with a tool, since I am a programmer.  I add a
Weekly tag to my topic and my search tool gives me a list of the
oldest topics that has expired.  Either way, keep the process simple,
but do it regularly.

During this review, update the content of the information.  But the
context of the info is even more important.  Update the connections,
add new connections.  Sometimes the topic grouping has evolved so much
that it warrants its own index.

Have fun.  Leave your future-self reminders and interesting morsels to
find. The tricky thing about your inner brain is how it remembers
things through it own emotional filter.  Reviewing content from your
exterior brain can be a different experience.  You see exactly what you
recorded in remarkable fidelity and get a chance to extend it or fix
it to make sense for today.
