* Brain Storage *                 -*-muse-*-

What should you save in your exterior brain?  And how do you make sure that these things are useful
to you?  You can have a great tool, but still misuse it.  The following guidelines will help you get
the most value from your brain.

You should plan on moving several types of information to your exterior brain. Just the act of
moving these will help you discover new aspects of the knowledge itself.

The first candidate of information to move is how you manage what you do.  Whether you are well
organized or struggling to keep track of things this system will help you.  Consider starting with
three simple lists.

Use a 'next actions' list to track the items that you are currently working on and hope to complete
in the next couple of days.  Use a 'project' list to track all of the different commitments that you
are planning on working on sometime in the next week. A calendar can simply be a list of
appointments that you need to keep.

The second major type of information to store in your exterior brain is what you know.  This could
be contact info, projects notes, how to do things, information about how computers are configured.
This is reference material that you need to record and recall later. Simple notes can be entered and
organized into collections of info over time.

Most jobs involve writing.  This is often held in directories of highly formatted documents, or in
email programs that do not have adequate search capability.  One of the benefits of your exterior
brain is that it will be extremely easy to search the content.  Develop a strategy that lets you
search everything that you have ever written.

Reading is also a major part of what we do.  Your exterior brain can be used as your own personal
index to the internet.  This will not be like anyone elses view because your interests are unique.
The power of information these days is that a URL can be used to acces almost anything from any
where.  You brain can be a massive well organized index that ends in thousands of URLs.
