* Brain Performance *                 -*-muse-*-

Think seriously about the performanc of your brain.  There is a huge
difference between brains that work and ones that don't.  Time your
tasks and make changes if your goals are met.

I use computers all day long and frequently watch other people do it.
I am astounded to watch someone flail around for a minute or two
trying to find a piece of information.  This can easily total a
couple of hours a day for just clicking around and trying to remember
things from before.

I definitly don't see the enjoyment in doing this.  I want a system
that is ready to accept new items instantly and can produce the info
that is needed in a few seconds.  The system must be designed around
these performance goals or you will not be able to achieve them.

Essential Goals:
 * 2 seconds - Record an idea
 * 5 seconds - Update existing information
 * 15 seconds - Add new informaition or structure or search for keywords
 * 0 seconds - Backups & version control (fully automatic)

Your system must be able to achieve these results to give you the
support you need.  If it can not then you will find yourself working
around the system rather than within it.

When I work everything is done within my exterior brain.  Occasionally I
visit web sites, create documents, write code, watch videos, search
the internet. But all of these activities are based in activities
within the brain system.

If I search for a new programming trick, or a new recipe for quiche,
the result is summarized in a paragraph of text for use later.  Why
would I want to lose information that I may have spent minutes
aquiring when it only costs me 15 seconds to summarize it.

When your system is fast enough you will use it for purposes that you
can not even imagine today.  How do these goals work in practical
terms?  When I get an idea the following command can capture it:
    idea Write about brain performance

This is how I capture an idea within 2 seconds when I am sitting at my
keyboard.  Otherwise I carry a pad and paper in my pocket to go
mobile.  This lets me avoid the destraction of using my phone to
capture the same idea.

If you are looking at your information on your computer and want to
fix a typo, or add a link to the current topic.  This should be a
simple matter of: Edit topic, Type changes, Save topic.  If it is that
easy then you will do these operations 100 times per hour.

Imagine having a giant recording of living data that is constantly
evolving and growing.  No sooner do you get an idea than it is already
captured. Everytime you look at something, it gets edited and refined.

But where the system really shines, is in the ability to find things.
It is great to be able to record everything. However the real goal is
to be able to retrieve things when you need them.  It is tragic that
most people do not make their computer find things for them.  Instead
many prefer to scroll through endless file lists, and paragraphs
looking for what they remember.

You can go a long way with simple word searches. A search for
"Taxes" should get you to all related topics.  Because I'm a geek,
regular expressions are even better.  I can search my whole brain for
complex patterns in several seconds.  The search itself requires less
than a second of computer time.  Here's how I use regular expressions
to search for my tax topics:
    brain Taxes

Here's how I edit all of my tax topics:
    brain-edit Taxes

You can see from these examples that it does not have to be hard.
Simple problems require simple solutions; more complex problems require
a little more sophisicated solutions.  Never accept complex solutions
to simple problems because you think that you may face an complex
problem later.
