* Why You Need an Extra Brain *                 -*- muse -*-

Living in the modern world is complex.  Never before have humans been so deluged with information
and tasks.  The intellectual demands of this generation are unprecedented.

Traditionally it was enough to know your specialty and how it connects to related fields.  But now
the specialties are so deep and far reaching that a single person cannot hope to master their entire
field.

Douglas Merrill says in his book, "Getting Organized in the Google Era", that there is 16 feet of
shelf space of published information for every person on earth.  There is clearly more information
available than will ever be read.  And the pace is accelerating each day.

Information overload is enough to cause anxiety for us all. This is compounded by the demands that
each of us face in our work lives.  Every employee is expected to produce a phenominal output in
their job.

Companies are eliminating workers to reduce cost, while not cutting back on the work being done. In
many companies the number of workers has decreased by 50% and the output has been roughly
equivalent.  This trend is unlikely to end soon.

Some people try to resist the trends.  Doing so is like trying to stop a river with your body.  You
are sure be swept away without the river even noticing your presense.  The trend will happen, the
primary question is, "How will you ride the wave?"

You need better tools in order to thrive in this new madness.  One tool that you need is a robust
system for managing both the breadth and depth of information that you deal with daily.

I've called this system an exterior brain, primarily because it strikes me as funny.  It evokes the
image of a mad scientist creating a biological equivalent.  Instead, we will be using the tools of
our time to craft a tool that will be far more effective.

Once you build your own brain system you will never be able to live successfully without it.
Imagine living without a cell phone.  This is an indispensible part of modern life.  Your
information storage system will become that way as well.

An exterior brain is not a computer or a smart phone.  It is built on those things. But it goes far
deeper.  It is the process and system that you use to organize ideas, concepts, tasks, resources,
and reference material for your daily life.

We will look at how to create a brain, manage it, and grow it into the most powerful tool you use.
This is a core competence that every knowledge worker needs.  Don't leave home without it.


