* Development loop *                 -*-muse-*-

 * measure the edit/run/test cycle
 * big loop and small loop
 * simple test to invoke single function
 * save for regression testing

How you construct your development loop, determines how maintainable your code will be three years
from now.  A proper development loop lets you exercise a single function in your code within 5
seconds.  This allows you to write one line of code and try it out.  

If it does exactly what you want them write another.  Every other line that you write can be a test
case and the remaining code is product code.  At least once a minute you make progress toward the
product goal.   

As a byproduct, you will have a collection of unit tests that can be used later.  A regression test
can be performed on the entire code base just by running all of these tests.  After you write 200
lines of product code you will have around 200 lines of test code that guarantee that the product is
running properly.

A proper development loop starts with designing the test.  How will you verify that the feature
works?  Simply asking this question, will give you higher quality code.  Building and running a test
will ensure that this code never suffers bit rot.

Thinking of the test first does two things for you.  It guarantees that your code works properly
now. It also guarantees that you will know when you accidentally break this function in the
future. If you build this type of testing as you go then you can ensure that your whole system is
testable.

Something will happen that will break the code at some later time.  The primary question is how this
error will be detected.  Bit rot is the result of having a growing number of undetected errors in
your system.

You can prevent bit rot by having the unit tests act as guardians over the integrity of each
function that you write.  By running tests daily and fixing every resulting problem you maintain a
high level of quality throughout the lifecycle.  This allows you to survive through many context,
structural, and behavioral changes.
